1. What is the function of a vortex generator?:It is designed to delay or prevent separation of the boundary layer.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-13):Chapter 1
2. What are the three axes of an airplane?:Longitudinal, lateral, and vertical.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-23):Chapter 1
3. What are the three primary flight controls of an aircraft?:The ailerons, elevator, and rudder.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-27):Chapter 1
4. Name several secondary flight controls and describe their general purpose?:Secondary flight controls consist of various types to trim tabs such as balance tabs, anti-servo and servo tabs, and spring tabs. Their function is to assist the pilot in moving the controls and to trim the aircraft to fly hands-off.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-31):Chapter 1
5. Name several types of auxiliary flight controls and describe their general purpose?:The auxiliary flight controls consist of the various high-lift devices used during low-speed flight such as leading and trailing edge flaps, slats, slots, speed brakes, etc.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-33):Chapter 1
6. What is a servo trim tab?:It is an auxiliary control, positioned by the movement of a cockpit control and designed to create aerodynamic forces to assist in moving a control surface.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-32):Chapter 1
7. What is a spring tab?:It is an auxiliary control designed to aid the movement of a primary control at high speeds when control forces become too high.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-32):Chapter 1
8. What is a blaance trim tab?:It is an auxiliary control designed to create aerodynamic forces to assist in moving a control surface. The tab is positioned by a control rod connected to the fixed surface on the same side as the horn on the tab.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-32):Chapter 1
9. What are four most common types of high lift devices?:Leading and trailing edge flaps, slats, and slots.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-33):Chapter 1
10. Describe some of the tools used to check control surface travel?:A universal propeller protractor or special control surface protracotor.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-44):Chapter 1
11. Name three mechanical methods by which flight control systems may be actuated.:Cables, push-pull rods, and torque tubes.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-44):Chapter 1
12. What is a fairlead?:It is a device to prevent a cable from rubbing on the aircraft structure.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-48):Chapter 1
13. What are the most likely places for a control cable to wear or break?:Where the cables pass over pulleys or through fairleads.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-47):Chapter 1
14. What information is required before a cable rigging chart can be used?:The ambient temperature and the cable size.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-48):Chapter 1
15. What is the function of a cable tension regulator?:It automatically adjusts the cable tension to compensate for expansion and contraction in the aircraft structure.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-48):Chapter 1
16. Describe the function of a rotorcraft collective pitch control.:The collective control causes each rotor blade to change its pitch angle by the same amount, thus increasing or decreasing the lift produced by the rotor.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-71):Chapter 1
17. Describe the function of a rotorcraft cyclic pitch control.:The cyclic control tilts the main rotor disc by changing the pitch angle of each rotor blade during its cycle of rotation, which causes the helicopter to move in the direction the rotor tilts.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-73):Chapter 1
18. What mechanism is most commonly used to compensate for the torque produced by the main rotor of a helicopter?:The tail (or anti-torque) rotor.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-74):Chapter 1
19. How is the amount of thrust produced by the tail rotor controlled?:By moving the foot pedals.:(Page Reference: JSAT 1-74):Chapter 1
20. Why should control surfaces be locked when an aircraft is parked?:To prevent damage from the wind.:(Page Reference: JSGT 13-17):Chapter 1
1. What is the major type of damage to aluminum structures that is caused by exposure to the weather?:Corrosion.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-13):Chapter 2
2. Name several methods for forming sheet metal.:Bending or folding. stretching, shrinking, bumping, and crimping.:(Page Refence: JSAT 2-32):Chapter 2
3. What are the dimensions of a properly formed rivet head?:The head should be 1 1/2 times the shank diameter in width and 1/2 the shank diameter in height.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-39):Chapter 2
4. Describe the markings found on the heads of A, B, D, AD, and DD rivets.:A rivets are plain, B rivets have a cross, D rivets have a raised dot, AD rivets have a dimple, and DD rivets have a double dash.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-41):Chapter 2
5. What happens to the stem of a self-plugging (friction lock) rivet when the rivet is installed?:The stem is pulled until is snaps off and the remaining projecting part is trimmed flush with the head.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-43):Chapter 2
6. Name at least three types of self-plugging mechanical lock rivets.:CherryMAX, CherryLOCK, OLYMPIC-LOK, and HuckLok rivets.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-43):Chapter 2
7. What is the difference between the tools required to pull a CherryLOCK rivet and a CherryMAX rivet?:CherryLOCK rivets require a tool for each different size and head shape, while one pulling tool will set any size CherryMAX rivet.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-44):Chapter 2
8. Which of the five stresses is the most common cause of rivet failure?:Shear.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-55):Chapter 2
9. If a 2024 rivet must be replaced with a 2117 rivet, how do you determine the size to be used?:For 5/32/" or smaller diameter, use the next larger size 2117 rivet, assuming that the edge distance and spacing meet the minimum requirements.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-60):Chapter 2
10. Describe the process for determining the total length of a solid rivet for a particular insallation.:Add the grip length (thickness of the materials being joined) plus 1 1/2 times the rivet diameter.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-59):Chapter 2
11. What minimum edge distance and spacing should be used for a single row of protruding head rivets?:Not less than two rivet diameters from the edge and not less than three rivet diameters apart.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-60):Chapter 2
12. How can a mechanic determine whether the countersink for a flush rivet should be dimpled or drilled?:By the thickness of the top sheet; thin sheets are dimpled while thick sheets may be countersunk.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-65):Chapter 2
13. What action is taken to prevent cracks from forming while dimpling magnesium or some hard sheet metals?:Hot dimpling equipment is used to preheat and soften the metal before the dimple is formed.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-68):Chapter 2
14. What type of damage can occur when using a rivet set that does not properly fir the rivet?:If the radius of the set is too small, the rivet head may be damaged, whereas a set with an over-sized radius may cause damage to the sheet metal.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-71):Chapter 2
15. Why is it important to use the proper size and weight bucking bar when performing sheet metal riveting?:If a bucking bar is too large or heavy it may be difficult to control and may cuase damage to the surrounding structure, whereas a bucking bar that is too light will not properly upset the rivet before work hardening occurs.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-72):Chapter 2
16. What procedures should be followed to properly remove a solid-shank rivet?:Center punch the rivet and then drill just to the base of the ribet head with the same size or one size smaller drill. Once drilled, use a pin punch to tip off the rivet head and drive the remaining shank out of the hole while supporting the surrounding metal.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-74):Chapter 2
17. What are the two special calculations that must be made when bending sheet metal?:Bend allowance and setback.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-77):Chapter 2
18. What factors must be considered in order to determine setback?:The thickness of the metal and the bend radius.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-77):Chapter 2
19. What is done to a corner where two bends intersect to prevent cracking?:Relief holes are drilled in the corner.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-85):Chapter 2
20. What are the two reasons for installing a lightening hole in a sheet metal wing rib?:Lightening holes reduce the weight and increase stiffness.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-88):Chapter 2
21. Describe a joggle and explain its function.:A joggle is an offset formed at an intersection of two or more sheets of metal to allow the multiple sheets to be stacked flat against each other.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-89):Chapter 2
22. When repairing an all-metal aircraft, how do you determine what metals should be used?:Always use metal of the same type and thickness as the original structure.:(Page Reference: JSAT 2-97):Chapter 2
1. What are the three forms of wood commonly used in aircraft construction?:Solid, laminated, and plywood.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-2): Chapter 3
2. What type of wood should be used when splicing or reinforcing plywood webs?:The same type of plywood as originally used.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-19):Chapter 3
3. Name at least four different types of defects found in wood.:Knots, checks, splits, pitch pockets, corss grain, curly grain, decay, dry rot, etc.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-4):Chapter 3
4. Can a section of wood containing a hard knot be used?:Yes, within specified limits.:(Page Referenced: JSAT 3-5):Chapter 3
5. What type of glue may have been used in older wooden aircraft construction that requires careful inspection to detect deterioration?:Casein glue.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-6):Chapter 3
6. What are the three types of glues used in modern aircraft construction and repair?:Resorcinol glue, Phenol-formaldehyde glue, and epoxy resin glue.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-6):Chapter 3
7. Is compression wood acceptable for structural reparis?:No.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-6):Chapter 3
8. Why should the various pieces of wood being joined be kept in the same room for at least 24 hours prior to joining?:To allow the moisture content to equalize, thereby minimizing dimensional changes in the wood.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-7):Chapter 3
9. Why is it important to consider the open-assembly time time when gluing wooden structures?:If the maximum open-assembly time is exceeded, the joint may fail since the glue may begin setting up before the joint assembled.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-7):Chapter 3
10. Why is it important to apply the proper clamping pressure to a glue joint?:Clamping forces air out of the joint, brings the wood surfaces together evenly and is, in part, responsible for the strength of the glue line.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-8):Chapter 3
11. Describe some of the methods used to apply pressure to glue joints.:Clamps, nailing strips, power presses, brads, anils, and small screws.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-8):Chapter 3
12. What minimum curing temperature should be observed when joining wood with various adhesives?:70 degrees Fahrenheit or as specified by the glue manufacturer.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-8):Chapter 3
13. When inspecting wood structures, why might it be important to consider stains and discolored areas?:Stains and discoloration usually accompany decay and/or rot.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-10):Chapter 3
14. Describe the acceptable methods used to repair elongated bolts holes found in a wooden wing spar.:Remove the setion containing the elongated hole(s) and splice in a new section or replace the entire spar.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-12):Chapter 3
15. What type of joint is used to splice a solid or rectangular wood spar?:A scarf joint.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-12):Chapter 3
16. In what areas are splices to a wood spar prohibited?:Under an attachment fitting for the wing root, landing gear, engine-mount, lift, or inter-plane strut.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-12):Chapter 3
17. What is the maximum number of splices allowed for any single spar?:Two.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-12):Chapter 3
18. Describe the characteristics of a scarf joint.:The pieces to be joined are tapered or beveled on a slope of 1 to 10 or 1 to 12.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-12):Chapter 3
19. Why must the beveled cut be accurate on both pieces of wood being repaired with a scarfed joint?:The two pieces must match exactly to ensure a tight glue joint.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-12):Chapter 3
20. What are the two primary uses for plywood in aircraft construction?:Gusset (or reinforcing) plates and aircraft skin.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-16):Chapter 3
21. Provide examples of at least three types of plywood skin repairs.:Splayed patches, surface pathces, plug patches, and scarfed patches.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-18):Chapter 3
22. What type of patch should be used to repair small holes in thin plywood skin if the skin is less than 1/10th inch thick?:A splayed patch may be used if the hole can be cleared out to a diameter of less than 15 thickness of the skin.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-18):Chapter 3
23. What should be done to prevent a plywood patch and the pressure plate from sticking together if glue is extruded from the joint?:Place a piece of waxed paper or vinyl plastic between the patch and the pressure plate.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-18):Chapter 3
24. Why are lightweight steel bushing sometimes used in wooden structures?:Bushings prevent the wood from being crushed when bolts are tightened.:(Page Reference: AC 43.13-1B):Chapter 3
25. What is the purpose of large surface area washers when used on wooden structures?:Large washers provide additional bearing area for hardware to help preclude damage to the wood when the hardware is tightened.:(Page Reference: AC 43.13-1B):Chapter 3
26. Name several facings and core materials used in bonded honeycomb structures intended for special applications.:Stainless steel, titanium, magnesium, plywood, glass, nylon, and cotton cloth.:(Page Refence: FAH 7-11):Chapter 3
27. Describe the construction of a bonded honeycomb structure.:It is a laminated structure that has a solid facing bonded to either side of a core consisting of open, six-sided cells.:(Page Reference: FAH 7-10):Chapter 3
28. What must be done with a damaged area in a bonded honeycomb structure prior to beginning repairs?:The area must first be inspected to determine the damaged area prior to completely removing the damaged material.:(Page Reference: FAH 7-34):Chapter 3
29. A drill bit used for drilling composites should operate at approximately what speed?:Use an air-driven tool capable of a free speed of up to 20,000 rpm.:(Page Reference: FAH 7-49):Chapter 3
30. What are the most common causes for delamination of a composite structure?:Sonic vibration, expansion of internal moisture, liquid leakage, and a manufacturing error.:(Page Reference: FAH 7-13):Chapter 3
31. What type of defect in, or damage to, a bonded honeycomb structure can be repaired using the potted repair method?:Filling a hole.:(Page Reference: FAH 7-34):Chapter 3
32. Name some of the factors that cause crazing in transparent plastic windows and windshields?:Exposure to ultraviolet light, stress, solvents, and improper handling.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-25):Chapter 3
33. How should a hole be drilled in Plexiglas to avoid damage to the hole when the drill breaks through to the underside?:Back up the plastic with a piece of wood and feed the drill slowly.:(Page Reference: JSAT 3-27):Chapter 3
1. Name the three principle types of welding.:Gas welding, electric arc welding, and electric resistance welding.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-3):Chapter 4
2. What are some advantages of gas shielded arc welding?:The weld is stronger, more ductile, and more corrosion resistant.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-4):Chapter 4
3. Which method of welding is less likely to cause buckling or warping of thin metal sheets?:Electric arc (or TIG) welding.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-4):Chapter 4
4. What is the purpose of shielding an arc weld with an inert gas?:The gas prevents atmospheric oxygen and/or nitrogen from contaminating the weld.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-4):Chapter 4
5. What is a common method of controlling expansion when welding a joint?:Place tack welds along the length of the joint.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-8):Chapter 4
6. What is the effect of inadequate penetration on a weld?:The weld will be weak.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-9):Chapter 4
7. What is the purpose of the flux used with brazing and silve soldering?:The flux cleans the base metal by removing any oxide film.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-11):Chapter 4
8. What type of flame is used when torch brazing or silver soldering?:A neutral flame.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-11):Chapter 4
9. What must be done to a soldering iron tip to increase the amount of heat transferred from the tip to the work?:The tip must be clean of all contaminates and properly tinned.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-13):Chapter 4
10. What is the preferred method for welding aluminum?:Tungesten Inert Gas (TIG) welding.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-18):Chapter 4
11. What is the preferred method of welding magnesium?:Tungesten Inert Gas (TIG) welding.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-18):Chapter 4
12. What precautions must be observed in order to weld titanium?:All traces of oxygen and nitrogen must be kept away from the weld area.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-18):Chapter 4
13. Describe one type of repair that could be made to a dented steel tube cluster joint.:A formed steel patch plate could be welded over the damaged area.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-20):Chapter 4
14. How can a soft flame be obtained without reducing the heat output of the torch?:Use a larger tip and adjust the gas pressure accordingly.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-30):Chapter 4
15. What factors determine the amount of heat delivered by a gas welding torch?:The size of the torch tip and the gas pressure.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-30):Chapter 4
16. When an oxyacetylene torch is extinguished, which valve is turned off first?:Turn of the acetylene gas valve first.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-34):Chapter 4
17. When a gas welding project is completed, what safety precatuions should be accomplished?:All the valves are turned off and the gas pressures are relieved.:(Page Reference: JSAT 4-33):Chapter 4
18. What should be done to a heat-treated aluminum part after welded repairs are completed?:The part must be re-heat treated.:(Page Reference: JSGT 7-7):Chapter 4
19. Welding magnesium can create a serious safety hazard. What is the nature of this hazard?:Magnesium burns with a very hot flame that is very hard exstinguish.:(Page Reference: JSGT 7-10):Chapter 4
20. What technique might be used to enable a tight-fitting inner sleeve to be inserted into a tubluar repair?:The inner tube could be chilled with dry ice or in a freezer while the outer tube could be heated slightly with a torch.:(Page Reference: AC 43.13-1B):Chapter 4
14. What regulation governs the application of the registration numbers to aircraft registered in the United States?:FAR Part 45.:(Page Reference: JSAT 6-31):Chapter 5
15. Other than appearance, what is another reason for touching up painted surfaces?:Reduction or elimination of general corrosion problems.:(Page Reference: JSGT 12-28):Chapter 5
16. What references should be used to determine if a control surface must be checked and/or rebalanced after painting?:The manufacturer/'s service manual.:(Page Reference: JSAT 6-29):Chapter 5
17. What would be the effect if dope was used over paint or enamel?:The dope tends to dissolve these materals.:(Page Reference: AC 43.13-1B):Chapter 5
18. What are the three most commonly used methods of applying paint?:Dipping, brushing, and spraying.:(Page Reference: FAH):Chapter 5
19. What is the effect on paint finishes if too much drier is added to the paint?:The paint film will be brittle and tend to crack and peel.:(Page Reference: FAH):Chapter 5
20. What paint system(s) may be used with epoxy topcoats?:Any paint system in good condition.:(Page Reference: FAH):Chapter 5
1. Why is butyrate dope safer to use than nitrate dope?:It is much less flammable.:(Page Reference: JSAT 5-3):Chapter 6
2. What are the two types of dope used for fabric finishes?:Cellulose Nitrate and Cellulose Acetate Butyrate.:(Page Reference: JSAT 5-3):Chapter 6
3. What is the appearance of a blushing paint finish?:Chalky or cloudy.:(Page Reference: JSAT 6-3):Chapter 6
4. What finishing defect is the result of a pint room temperature that is too warm?:Pinholes or blisters.:(Page Reference: JSAT 6-3):Chapter 6
5. What causes dope to blush?:High humidity, moisture in the spray system, or application over a dump surface.:(Page Reference: JSAT 6-3):Chapter 6
6. What factors cause spray paint sags and runs?:Inadequate surface preparation or paint sprayed on too thickly.:(Page Reference: JSAT 6-3):Chapter 6
7. What components or parts of the airframe must be protected from damage when using paint stripper?:Windshields and windows, plastics, composites, synthetic rubber, and fabrics.:(Page Reference: JSAT 6-7):Chapter 6
8. What is the function of zinc-chromate or wash primers?:Primers serve to inhibit corrosion and provide a good bond between the metal and the topcoats.:(Page Reference: JSAT 6-10):Chapter 6
9. Name serveral common types of paint used on aircraft.:Zinc-chromate and wash primers, synthetic enamels, acrylic lacquer, and polyurethane.:(Page Reference: JSAT 6-9):Chapter 6
10. What is the proper thinner to use the zinc-chromate primer?:Toluene.:(Page Reference: JSAT 6-16):Chapter 6
11. What health and safety precautions must be observed when using the toxic solvents and thinners that are part of modern finishing systems?:Respirators and/or masks must be worn when spraying finishes.:(Page Reference: JSAT 6-20):Chapter 6
12. If spray painting dust causes a surface to appear dry and rough, what are the most likely causes?:Too much air pressure or the spray gun is too far from the surface being painted.:(Page Reference: JSAT 6-26):Chapter 6
13. What causes /"orange-peel/"?:Spray pressure too high, use of a thinner that dries too fast, cold temperatures, or a damp draft over the surface.:(Page Reference: JSAT 6-30):Chapter 6
1. What could cause an AC electric motor to run too fast?:Excessive applied voltage or shorted field windings.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-12):Chapter 7
2. What tool is used to check a motor or generator armature for shorts and opens under load conditions?:A Growler.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-16):Chapter 7
3. When using a Growler, what indication will occur when a short exists between an armature segment?:When a metal blade is held over the armature and a short exists in a segment, the blade will begin to vibrate and /"chatter./":(Page Reference: JSAT 7-16):Chapter 7
4. How is the output voltage of an alternator controlled?:By varying the field current that excites the alternator.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-21):Chapter 7
5. What instruments are used to monitor electrical system loads?:Ammeteres and voltmeters.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-42):Chapter 7
6. How would you identify a specific wire in a wire bundle?:By the identification code marked on the wire.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-64):Chapter 7
7. What tool would you use tot determine the size of an unmarked wire?:A wire gauge.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-63):Chapter 7
8. What color are the navigation light on the wingtips?:The left wingtip is red, the right is green.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-86):Chapter 7
9. Name several types of electrical devices that would be considered intermittent loads on an electrical system.:Landing gear, cowl and wing flap motors, radio transmitters.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-42):Chapter 7
10. Why would it be necessary to analyze an electrical system before increasing the loas on the system?:To determine that the generator capacity, wire size, and protective device capacity will not be exceeded.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-43):Chapter 7
11. What factors should be considered when determining the wire size for a particular application?:The system voltage, permissible voltage drop, current to be carried, wire length, and whether the load is continuous or intermittent.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-62):Chapter 7
12. What is the relationship between the inside diameter of a conduit and the outside diameter of the wire bundle inside it?:The conduit must be 25% larger than the wire bundle.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-67):Chapter 7
13. What is the maximum number of terminal lugs that can be placed on a single terminal strip stud?:Four.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-72):Chapter 7
14. What is the proper length for a bonding jumper?:As short as practical, but long enough to allow free movement of the component.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-73):Chapter 7
15. Under what conditions must a switch be derated from its nominal rating?:When used with inductive circuits, circuits with high in-rush current, and with DC motors.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-80):Chapter 7
16. At what point do electric motors draw the most current?:When starting.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-83):Chapter 7
17. Circuit breakers are designed to open before what condition occurs?:Before the wire emits smoke.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-83):Chapter 7
18. At what point in a circuit should the protective device be located?:As close to the power source as possible.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-83):Chapter 7
19. What type of circuit breaker may not be used in an aircraft?:An automatic resetting type.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-85):Chapter 7
20. What part of an aircraft is identified by a white navigation light?:The tail.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-87):Chapter 7
21. What could cause an AC electric motor to run too slowly?:Lack of lubrication, defective wiring, or low applied voltage.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-99):Chapter 7
22. What should be done when making bonding or grounding connections between dissimilar materials?:Use a suitable washer so that any corrosion will occur on the washer.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-73, AC 43.13-1B):Chapter 7
23.Prior to making a continuity check, what must be done to an electrical circuit?:The power must be turned off.:(Page Reference: JSGT 3-148):Chapter 7
1. What materials from the bases of the three types of hydraulic fluids?:Vegetable, mineral, and phosphate-esters.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-9):Chapter 8
2. What colors denote minerl-based and phosphate-ester-based hydraulic fluids?:Mineral based fluids are red and phosphate-ester based fluids are light purple.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-9):Chapter 8
3. What are the results of exposing lacquers, oil-based paint, plastic resins, and vinyl compounds to phosphate-ester-based hydraulic fluid?:The materials will be damaged and/or softened, or the paint will peel.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-10):Chapter 8
4. Name several sources used to develop hydraulic pressure.:Hand pumps, engine-driven pumps, and electrically driven pumps.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-16):Chapter 8
5. What would cause the bypass valve in a hydraulic filter to open and allow unfiltered fluid to circulate in the system?:A clogged filter element.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-18):Chapter 8
6. Describe several methods of pressurizing a hydraulic reservoir.:Engine bleed air, system pressure acting on a small piston in the reservoir, using variable-displacement hydraulic pumps.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-20):Chapter 8
7. What feature prevents engine damage if an engine-driven hydraulic pump seizes or is overloaded?:A shear section in the pump driveshaft will break, disconnecting the pump from the engine.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-27):Chapter 8
8. Describe the purpose of a pressure relief valve.:Pressure relief valves limit the maximum pressure produced by the pump, thereby preventing failures of the system components.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-16):Chapter 8
9. Engine-driven pumps deliver the output fluid flow in what two forms?:As a constant volume or a variable volume.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-27):Chapter 8
10. Describe the operation of a gear-type pump.:Two meshed gears, driven by a power source, rotate in a housing. Inlet fluid is carried around the outside of the gears and delivered to the outlet side as the gears rotate.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-27):Chapter 8
11. Describe the purpose of a pressure regulator.:Pressure regulators manage the output of the pump to maintain system pressure. They allow the pump to be unloaded so it turns without significant resistance.:(Page Reference: 8-39):Chapter 8
12. What is the device that is used in some systems to supplement the pump output during periods of high demand?:An accumulator.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-40):Chapter 8
1. What unit is an anti-skid system generates the anti-skid warning signal?:The control unit.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-5):Chapter 10
2. How is a pilot alerted that an anti-skid system has automatically returned to a manual brake system?:By a warning light.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-6):Chapter 10
3. What is the significance of an anti-skid warning?:The system is off or has failed.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-6):Chapter 10
4. By what usual  means does the stall warning system in a small aircraft alert the pilot of an impending stall?:An audible alert and/or warning light.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-11):Chapter 10
5. What devices are used to provide warnings for a retractable alnding gear system?:A horn or other aural device, and a red warning light or lights.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-14):Chapter 10
6. How can a pilot determine  that the landing gear is down and locked?:A green light or lights and/or another type of visual indictaor.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-14):Chapter 10
7. Name at least two conditions that would activate a takeoff configuration warning system in a jet transport aircraft.:Incorrect leading or trailing edge flap position, stabilizer position, or speed brake not stowed. The manufacturer may establish other conditions.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-14):Chapter 10
8. What landing gear positions must be indicated by regulations?:Down and locked an up and locked.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-14):Chapter 10
9. Under what conditions will a landing gear aural warning sound?:When the throttle is retarded and the landing gear is not down and locked.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-14):Chapter 10
10. How does a takeoff configuration warning differ from a landing gear warning?:Takeoff warnings are usually an intermittent horns while landing gear warnings are steady.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-14):Chapter 10
11. What is the function of a Mach airspeed warning system?:To alert the pilot that the never-exceed airspeed limit has been reached or exceeded.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-15):Chapter 10
12. What systems are commonly used to activate the landing gear warning systems?:The throttles (thrust levers) and the wing flaps.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-13):Chapter 10
13. Why do airplanes with bleed air anti-icing of the wing leading edge have an anti-ice overheat light(s)?:To indicate an over-temperature condition, usually as the result of a break in the bleed air ducts.:(Page Reference: JSAT 13-4):Chapter 10
14. What warning system may be required whem a nickel-cadmium battery is installed in an aircraft?:A battery temperature monitoring system.:(Page Reference: JSAT 7-31):Chapter 10
15. At what time would a check of a landing gear warning system normally be made?:During a landing gear retraction test.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-18):Chapter 10
16. What is the purpose of an annunciator system?:To show, by means of a warning light, that some system parameter requires attention by the flight crew.:(Reference: JSAD):Chapter 10
17. If an aircraft with retractable landing gear has only one green light to indicate the gear is down and locked, how will the switches be connected, in series or in parallel?:In series.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-14):Chapter 10
18. Where would you locate the procedures for checking and adjusting the landing gear switches?:In the aircraft manufacturer/'s manual. (Page Reference: JSAT 9-18):Chapter 10
19. What is the usual means for alerting the crew of a jet transport that the cabin doors are not properly closed?:A warning light.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-16):Chapter 10
20. Why are transport category aircraft equipped with a master caution and warning system?:To alert the crew that a malfunction has occurred and corrective action may be required.:(Page Reference: JSAT 10-15):Chapter 10
1. A static check may be performed on a manifold pressure gauge by using what piece of information?:Current atmospheric pressure.:(Page Reference: JSAT 11-6):Chapter 11
2. What aircraft instrument can be used to check a manifold pressure gauge for proper indication?:The sensitive altimeter.:(Page Reference: JSAT 11-6):Chapter 11
3. Name several of the indication errors that may be found in altimeters.:Scale errors, hysteresis, friction installation.:(Page Reference: JSAT 11-9):Chapter 11
4. What is the signal source in an electrical resistance-type temperature indicating system?:A temperature bulb or sensing element.:(Page Reference: JSAT 11-14):Chapter 11
5. What type of temperature sensing system is normally used to measure a turbine engine exhaust gas tempterature?:A thermocouple-type system.:(Page Reference: JSAT 11-15):Chapter 11
6. What operating parameter is indicated by a tachometer?:Engine RPM(i.e., crankshaft or turbine rotor speed).:(Page Reference: JSAT 11-16):Chapter 11
7. What is the name of the effect that causes a gyro to respond to an applied force to a point 90 degrees further in the direction of rotation?:Gyroscopic precession.:(Page Reference: JSAT 11-17):Chapter 11
8. What are the three sources of power used to drive a gyroscopic turn indicator?:Air from a vacuum or pressure source, or an electric motor.:(Page Reference: JSAT 11-20, 11-30):Chapter 11
9. What are two items that should be considered during inspection of a magnetic compas?:1. The fluid must be clear. 2. The housing must be full with no bubbles. 3. The card must be legible and the lubber line intact. 4. The compass should be properly calibrated.:(Page Reference: JSAT 11-22):Chapter 11
10. In what way do magnetic fields generated by electrical equipment and steel parts in the airplane affect a magnetic compass?:Stray magnetic fields deflect the compass from correct alignment with the earth's magnetic field.:(Page Reference: JSAT 11-24):Chapter 11
11. Describe the basic operating concept of a synchro-type remote indicating system.:A remote transmitter electrically signals a receiver inside the istrument.:(Page Reference: JSAT 11-25):Chapter 11
12. What aircraft instruments are connected to the pilot-static system?:The altimeter, vertical speed indicator, airspeed and Mac meter in high-performance jets.:(Page Reference: JSAT 11-30):Chapter 11
13. Why should you avoid cleaning obstructions from the sensing holes in a pilot-static system with a tool?:The holes are aerodynamically critical.:(Page Reference: JSAT 11-31):Chapter 8
13. What are the three different types of accumulators?:Piston, diaphragm, and bladder.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-40):Chapter 8
14. What safety precautions must be taken prior to disassembling an accumulator?:Release all of the air or preload.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-40):Chapter 8
15. When a hydraulic unit is replaced, what precautions should be taken to avoid contamination of the system?:All lines should be capped or plugged immediately after they are disconnected.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-42):Chapter 8
16. What types of components or systems are pneumatically operated in some aircraft?:Landing gear, brakes, flaps, and other mechanical actuators.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-43):Chapter 8
17. Name several sources of pneumatic power.:Storage bottles, engine bleed air, engine-driven compressors or vane-type pumps.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-16):Chapter 8
18. What happens to excess pressure in a pneumatic system?:A relief valve vents it overboard.:(Page Refence: JSAT 8-50):Chapter 8
19. What is function of a restrictor in a pneumatic system?:To control the rate of flow of the airflow.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-62):Chapter 8
20. What are the reasons for periodically purging a neumatic system?:To remove moisture and contaminants.:(Page Reference: JSAT 8-66):Chapter 8
1. What is the purpose of a torque link on an oleo strut?:To keep the wheel in alignment and prevent the piston from coming out of the cylinder.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-4):Chapter 9
2. A landing gear-shock strut should be inflated with what gas(es)?:Nitrogen or dry air.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-5):Chapter 9
3. What conditions should a mechanic look for during a regular inspection of the exposed piston section of a landing gear?:Cleanliness, evidence of damage, and proper extension.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-5):Chapter 9
4. What prevents air from leaking out between the two halves of a split wheel assembly?:An O-ring.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-6):Chapter 9
5. Why are fusible plugs installed on some aircraft wheels?:To release the pressure generated by heat build-up before a tire blows.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-7):Chapter 9
6. What safety precaution must be taken when removing a wheel from an axle or when disassembling a wheel?:Verify that the tire is completely deflated before removing a wheel from an axle or before wheel disassembly.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-7):Chapter 9
7. What are the visible signs of excessive heating on a wheel bearing?:The bearing surfaces show discoloration.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-8):Chapter 9
8. How are the pilot's nose wheel steering commands transmitted to the steering control unit of a large aircraft?:Steering signals may be transmitted mechanically, electrically, or hydraulically.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-11):Chapter 9
9. How is the nose wheel steering mechanism usually actuated on a small aircraft?:By means of a mechanical linkage connected to the rudder pedals.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-11):Chapter 9
10. What is the name of the unit that prevents a nose wheel from vibrating or oscillating?:A shimmy damper.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-11):Chapter 9
11. What are the most common sources of power used to extend and retract landing gear?:Hydraulic pressure and electric motors.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-14):Chapter 9
12. At what times should a gear retraction check be performed?:During annual or other inspections and following a hard landing.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-17):Chapter 9
13. What mechanism(s) ensure that a nose wheel is not turned as it retracts into its wheel well?:Internal centering cams in the strut or an external track.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-17):Chapter 9
14. Name several types of brake actuating systems.:Independent master cylinders, boosted brakes, and power-controlled brakes.:(Page Reference: JSAT 9-30):Chapter 9
